---
layout: post
title: Vim Args
excerpt: This is my contribution to the annual NoVIMber celebration!
tags: [vim]
---

If you use Vim, this post is for you.  If you've never used Vim, or are super new to it, you'll probably get confused.  However, this tip is one of those discoveries where you remember that Vim's designers thought of everything.  I found it in { [Practical Vim](https://pragprog.com/book/dnvim/practical-vim) }.

When you run a program from the Linux command line, you can provide one or more arguments.  With Vim, those arguments are the names of the files you want to edit.  Those names go into the Vim _args list_.  When you open a file in Vim with the `:edit` command, that file doe _not_ get added to the args list.  You need to perform some special incantations to get a file into, or take one out of, the args list.

This seems like arcane stuff, and probably borderline useless.  But, it's not.

### Vim Buffers

I first started getting the hang of Vim when I figured out what its { [_buffers_](https://sanctum.geek.nz/arabesque/buffers-windows-tabs/) } were, and how to switch between them.  In short, when you open a file to edit, you really copy the contents of the file into a Vim buffer.  If your computer catastrophically powers down suddenly while editing the file buffer, the original file will be there when you fire the computer back up.  You need to `:write` the contents of the buffer to the file in order for the changes to stick.

During an editing session, the user can open as many buffers as wanted.  For example, say you're working on a program that is composed of a bunch of modules in separate files.  You can open all of the files into their own buffer.  In any one window, you only see the contents of one buffer.  To { [switch between buffers](http://vimcasts.org/episodes/working-with-buffers/) }, you run either `:bnext` or `:bprevious`.

Say you need to see something you did in a different project to remember how you did it.  You can open that file in a new buffer with `:edit <file>`.  Now, when you cycle through your buffers with `:bnext`, you'll always cycle past that reference buffer.

If you do this a few times, your list of buffers gets polluted.  If you happen to be working on two or more projects at the same time, then it becomes a pain to hunt for the file you want using the `:bnext` command because you have to cycle through a bunch of unrelated buffers.

This is where the args list becomes useful.

### Using the args list

The args list is set when you open Vim.  You see what files are in the args list with `:args`, and cycle through the list using `:next` and `:previous`.  When you `:edit` a new file, that new buffer is not automatically added to the args list.  So, `:next` will never switch you to that new buffer.  Hence, the args list doesn't get crowded with a bunch of randomly opened buffers.

You can modify the args list with `:argadd <filename>` and `:argdelete <filename>`.  Instead of typing in the full path and filename, you open the file with `:edit`, then type `:argadd %` (remember, `%` means the current buffer).  If you want to dump a file, jump to the file with `:next`, then run `:argdelete %`.

This way, you can curate a set of files you're actively editing.  At the same time, you can open other files you need for reference.  They stay in the background until you switch to them using the usual buffer commands.  Otherwise, you rapidly fly between your actively edited files with `:next` and `:previous` (or your { [.vimrc](https://dougblack.io/words/a-good-vimrc.html) } keybindings).

There you have it, another Vim tip you probably didn't know about.
